DOCSP-48249-compass-schema-validation (#732)
mongodb/docs-compass: source/validation.txt

collection follow a defined set of rules, such as conforming to a
specific shape or only allowing a specified range of values in fields.

.. figure:: /images/compass/validation-tab.png
  :figwidth: 720px
  :alt: Validation view

.. _compass-update-validation:
.. _compass-validation-rules:

Validation Rules
----------------

The validation editor supports :ref:`JSON Schema validation

> <json-schema-validation>`, and :ref:validation with query

Reviewer: `:ref:validation` is this broken link?

Reviewer: <img width="387" alt="Screenshot 2025-03-27 at 11 26 14" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/91a69f79-db25-42c6-9167-bc48e0860a02" />

Author: Fixed. Thank you!

expressions using :ref:`<query-operator-validation>`.

.. _json-schema-validation:

JSON Schema Validation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The validation editor supports :manual:`JSON Schema validation
</core/schema-validation/#json-schema>`. The 
:manual:`$jsonSchema </reference/operator/query/jsonSchema>` operator 
supports various keywords to specify validation rules. For example:

- The ``required`` array defines required fields in your document.
- The ``properties`` object defines rules for specific document
  fields.

> To generate a JSON schema for your collection, see 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate a JSON schema via analysis of existing sample data, see 
```

Author: Updated. Thanks!

</core/schema-validation/#specify-validation-rules>` in the MongoDB
manual.

Get Started
-----------

- :ref:`<compass-generate-validation-rules>`
- :ref:`<compass-add-validation-rules>`
- :ref:`<compass-edit-validation-rules>`

Limitations
-----------

The :guilabel:`Validation` tab is not available if you are connected to
:atlas:`Atlas Data Federation </data-federation>`.

> Compass cannot export a schema that has more than 1000 distinct fields. 
> If you try to export a schema with more than 1000 distinct fields,      

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compass cannot analyze a schema that has more than 1000 distinct fields. 
If you try to analyze a schema with more than 1000 distinct fields,      
```

Author: Fixed.
